# Graph-Theory-Intership
Graph Theory Readme

	In the class Data Structures and Algorithms, we were studying graph theory and looked at many different types of graphs, undirected and directed. For a lab assignment, we were asked to create an interactive graph model with buttons and titles and a simple UI. Thus, I created this project and also went beyond to create a minimum spanning tree function which connects each Vertex in the graph with the fewest amount of edges.
	To make running this project easy, I exported this project that I created using the Eclipse IDE into a Runnable JAR file and included it in this folder as well. The Graph Theory JAR is called “GraphProject.jar”. To run the application, simply open the jar file and a new window will appear with a simple one point graph.
	There are many features in this application. First thing to notice is the three buttons on the bottom left of the screen. The highest button of the three labeled “+V” allows you to add a Vertex to the graph. There is already one Vertex in the Graph. Any subsequent Vertices that are added will be inserted along the edge of an imaginary circle using mathematics and manipulation of PI to equally space out all the Vertices in the graph. Once your mouse hovers over the button, the button will change colors and indicate that the mouse is over it. Once clicked, the button will register the click, change colors, and disappear very rapidly. After disappearing, a new set of labels and instructions will appear. The instructions will prompt you to type in a new name for the Vertex and register each keystroke as you type. *The shorter the name the better as that if the name is too long the text will exceed the boundaries of the Vertex. Two things happen as soon as you click enter. First, the original window will pop back up however the title will mutate to reflect the number of Vertices currently in the Graph. Next, in addition to the default Vertex “V1”, a new Vertex will have appeared on the screen, with both Vertices laid out in a Vertical line. More Vertices can be added in a similar fashion. Now that there are multiple Vertices in the graph, an Edge can be added to the Graph.
	To add an edge, simply tap on the “E+” circular button. Once tapped, the button will change colors and allow you to select up to two Vertices. To select two Vertices in the Graph, tap on them and they will highlight to reflect your selection. The Vertices can be unselected by tapping them once again. Once two Vertices have been selected, all the Vertices and buttons will go back to their original state; however, an Edge will appear in between the two selected Vertices. To add more edges, repeat the above process.
	The last button is labeled “MST”. This button will highlight one possible minimum spanning tree for the given Graph. *All Vertices must be connected in some way to another Vertex creating a connected graph, or the MST button will not function. Once tapped, a green path will highlight the minimum spanning tree of the graph.
	Apart from the buttons, the Graph is represented by a group of labeled circles, each representing a Vertex. This circular Vertex layout (easy to see the circular nature of the graph when more Vertices are present in the Graph) is visually appealing and allows each Vertex to contain Edges to other Vertices very easily. The dynamic title also keeps track of the current number of Vertices. This program conveniently represents a graph.
	Source code is included under src.
